So I have coated objectively
one of the greatest programs
of all time here that if I click
the gimme doggo button, I get a dog.
This is peak programming, by the way,
dog btn, dog btn is peak programming.
So let's see how we made
this lovely dog btn button.
I have a button here with called dog-btn.
And then I have some div where I'm
just gonna stick dog pictures, right?
So I'm target to stick some stuff there.
I'm gonna just throw this out here.
I don't control Dog star CEO, by the way.
It's not mine.
Someone makes it, I make a donation every
time I teach a class because it's awesome
that there's a free dog API out there.
But if you get something back here
that you don't expect I have no
control of that.
You have to remember that
I used to work at Reddit,
where it was all user generated content.
I've seen what users can generate and
I'm always concerned
of what can come back.
Okay, so, we have the URL,
which I just got from the documentation
here from Dog.CEO, right?
So this is a API endpoint that I can
request random images from, okay?
And then what I do here is I
run a function called fetch.
Fetch is built into your
browser as part of the DOM.
And it has the ability to go out and
request information from a server.
This gives you back
what's called a promise.
This tends to be pretty difficult for
people.
So if this feels hard, it's okay.
It took me a while to wrap my head
around fully what a promise is.
But a promise is just it's an object,
right?
And it's an object that represents
a future value that you're gonna get back
from the API because you
have to think about it.
If I click this Gimme Doggo button,
it's not instant, right?
It can't be instant because
the random dog is not on my computer.
This is going to Dog.CEO server.
There's a delay, right?
So we have to wait, this is asynchronous
programming, right, it's not synchronous.
If I had the dog picture already
I could just instantly change
it I wouldn't have to wait for anything.
But because it has to go out to
the Internet, ask a service like, hey,
give me something and then come back.
Just takes time, right?
What if the user is on
really slow Internet?
It takes even more time, right?
So that's why we have to
use promises to say, hey,
I'm gonna go do something and
then I have to wait for it.
That's why promises are useful here.
So I'm gonna call fetch
here with the DOG_URL.
And what I'm going to say is,
when this comes back,
that's what this .then function means,
do this.
So you say promise .then you give
it a function of something to do
when it comes back.
So whenever the server finally responds
back, all right, here's your random dog.
I have to call response.text here.
It takes a second for
the browser to process this, right?
So we have to do it again.
Where we say return processing promise and
then we'll say .then, right?
So this is another promise.
And then here,
I finally have the finished result.
So you have to go through two promises
to finally get to the information that
you're looking for.
It's a strange API.
Typically I would have expected
this to just be one, right, but
with the way this works, it actually
takes two promises to get through it.
Finally, this processedResponse
here will be a JSON string, right?
So it'll be this string here.
Of unprocessed JSON, right?
Oops, so I have to do JSON.parse, right?
I have to turn this process
response this string of HTML or
sorry the string of JSON into an object.
That's what this JSON.parse does, right?
And then here, I'm just gonna
create an element of an image tag.
I'm going to set the source of
it to be the message, right?
Remember here if we look at the response,
the message is the picture, right?
I don't know why they call it message.
It's not really a message.
It's an URL or an image but
Dog.CEO decided to call that the message.
Okay, I set the alt text to be cute
doggo because we should have an alt text
because it's an image.
And then I say doggos which is
the name of what I called my variable
here of this particular div,
right, and I say append.
And then I added an event listener that
every time I click add new doggo it
does that, right?
So now if I click this several times,
right,
it'll append several dog pictures here.
Now I'm gonna show you
how to do this faster.
But I wanted to show you this the
painstakingly long way to do this, right?
But this is how you make
a request from a server.
You call fetch to some URL
that you know is an API.
You're gonna get back some blob,
you have to then say,
this is what I expected from the blob.
In this case,
everything can be made text, right?
So text is a safe one that always works.
And then here finally I will
get this response, right?
And then I can start doing things with it.
Now, you might ask me what
happens if there's a error?
Well, I can say .catch(function(error.
And I can handle the error.
Like imagine if Dog.CEO went down, right?
Maybe they, I don't know, mess something
up and then the whole thing goes down.
You could get back an error from the API,
right?
So might have to show that these
are like a you can do like alert.
No it\'s bad, I don't know.
Something like that.
But that's what the catches the catch is
basically, no something happened I have
to respond to something going
wrong between me and the server.
What I showed you here is called
promise chaining by the way.
You'll sometimes see that referred
to it's just doing multiple promises
particularly here that you have to return
the promise to be able to .then again
that piece of it is
called promise chaining.
Just to make this a little bit easier.
There's actually a response.json.
So remember we did .text here before.
Here I'm doing .json because I know that
the server is gonna give me back json.
I get to skip a step which is nice.
So instead of this process response being
texted I have to go say json.parse on.
I can just say response.json and
this is already an object.
So basically, I'm making
the browser do the parsing for me,
I don't have to do it manually myself.
I will say 99% of time,
you're just going to do response.json
instead of response.text.
But sometimes it's text.
In which case you would
have to do response.text.
So just to be super concrete about it
here, here we did response.text, right?
And then here with processedResponse,
I had to do a JSON.parse.
If I do it this way down here
where I say response.json,
I don't have to do the parsing part of it.
All right, let's make this even easier.
I've shown you how to do
this promise chaining.
Let's make this 100 times more simple.
This is really dense, you're learning
coding for the first time we're already
talking about promises, unfortunately it's
unavoidable because they're everywhere.
Anytime you have to wait for
something, you're gonna use a promise.
But I'm going to show you how to use
a sync await to make this just 100 times
easier to read.